# data-science-r-workshops


## Montana State University R Workshops Team
These materials were adapted from materials generated by the Data Carpentries (https://datacarpentry.org/) and were originally developed at MSU by Dr. Allison Theobold. The workshop series is co-organized by the Montana State University Library, Department of Mathematical Sciences, and Statistical Consulting and Research Services (SCRS, https://www.montana.edu/statisticalconsulting/). SCRS is supported by Montana INBRE (National Institutes of Health, Institute of General Medical Sciences Grant Number P20GM103474). The workshops for 2020-2021 are supported by Faculty Excellence Grants from MSU’s Center for Faculty Excellence.

Research related to the development of these workshops is to appear in:

* Theobold, A., Hancock, S., & Mannheimer, S.. Data Science Workshops for Data-Intensive Environmental Science Research, Journal of Statistics Education 29 (sup1), S83-S94. https://doi.org/10.1080/10691898.2020.1854636 
 

These workshops involve modifications of materials.

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License

$~$

### Current Workshop Instrutors
**Sara Mannheimer**
* Sara Mannheimer is an Associate Professor and Data Librarian at Montana State University, where she helps shape practices and theories for curation, publication, and preservation of data. Her research examines the social, ethical, and technical issues of a data-driven world. She is the project lead for the MSU Dataset Search and the Responsible AI project.

**Greta Linse**
* Greta Linse is the Interim Director of Statistical Consulting and Research Services and the Project Manager for the Human Ecology Learning and Problem Solving (HELPS) Lab. Greta has been teaching, documenting and working with statistical software including R and RStudio for over 10 years.
 
$~$

### Previous Contributors
**Harley Clifton**
* Harley Clifton is an undergraduate senior pursuing a degree in Mathematics (Statistics Option) with a minor in Psychology. She enjoys teaching nuanced coding skills and Data Visualization strategies through her experience as a Teaching Assistant for STAT 216 and STAT 408. Harley recently attended the Summer Institute in Biostatistics and Undergraduate Data Science at the University of California Irvine, funded by the National Institute Of Allergy And Infectious Diseases of the National Institutes of Health (under Award Number R25AI170491). Her areas of interest include quantifying behaviors and societal attitudes, behavior modification to reduce discrimination, Deaf culture and history, and women’s health.
  
**Eliot Liucci**
* Eliot Liucci is a senior in the Mathematics (Statistics Option) Program here at Montana State University. He is currently working on a research project with the Mathematics and Statistics Center to analyze the impact of different time based variables on overall MSC foot traffic and usage. Throughout his experience as a Teaching Assistant for STAT 216 and STAT 217, Eliot has gained a deeper understanding of statistical methods and educational approaches. Eliot will graduate at the end of Fall 2022 with his bachelors and will start the M.S. in Statistics program in Spring 2023. His interests include environmental statistics, video games, and he restores vintage automobiles and motorcycles in his free time.
  
**Mark Greenwood**
* Mark Greenwood is a Professor of Statistics in the Department of Mathematical Sciences at Montana State University and the former Director of Statistical Consulting and Research Services. His research interests have involved statistical methods and applications in environmental sciences, education, and biological sciences. Recent work has involved researching diagnostic methods for Multiple Sclerosis. His current research grants include funding from the Mountain West IDeA Clinical and Translational Research - Infrastructure Network (National Institute of General Medical Sciences Grant 5U54GM104944-08) and a grant from the National Multiple Sclerosis Society (RG-1907-34348).

$~$

Recording for [**Intermediate R, Fall 2022 - Greta Linse, Sara Mannheimer, Harley Clifton and Eliot Liucci**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iB8fkziBCNI)

Recording for [**Data Wrangling in R, Fall 2022 - Greta Linse, Sara Mannheimer, Harley Clifton and Eliot Liucci**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6sTBbgslohY)
